This project requires you to use the most efficient algorithms and data structures you can find or can develop yourself, to formulate a solution to the challenge of creating a sophisticated file browsing application. You are required to create an appropriate user interface that allows the user to select and/or specify a resource (e.g. a folder, hard drive, SSD drive, network share, cloud storage, etc.), and then the application should list all the files and folders on that resource. For each file listed, the application should display its file type (based on its magic number), its size, date last modified, and a summary of what the file contains. For example, if the file is a MS Word document or a Adobe Acrobat PDF document, the application should summarize the contents of the document, or if the file contains a movie or song audio, the application should summarize what the movie or song is about, or if the file is a picture or photograph, then the application should give a summary description of what is shown in the picture or photograph. The project requires you to compute and discuss the time complexity of the algorithmic method you used to solve this file browser application problem. A visual display of your solution is required. You may host your application on Microsoft Azure cloud or similar cloud platform, and you may also utilize APIs etc from LLMs (e.g. OpenAI chatGPT or MS Copilot) and other systems to assist in generating the summary of the files. You can get free access to Microsoft Azure cloud platform at https://azure.microsoft.com and logging on with your UTech email account. Feel free to include addons in your application for extra bonus marks.
Write the code for a file browser application that provides a solution to the task posed above. Use any programming language of your choice and make use of the most efficient techniques, data structures, and algorithmic designs you have learned in this course, or can find through your own research.
Your completed project should summarize the problem in your own words, show the computational means and design technique you decided to use, show the design of the algorithm you used to solve the problem, prove the correctness of the algorithm, and analyze the algorithm to show how efficient and appropriate it is. You should also provide the source code and run-time executable of the application you develop. (Your project files must be uploaded to the UTech Online/Moodle site for this project.)